---
{"publish":true,"created":"2025-08-07T17:37:25.783+02:00","modified":"2025-08-07T18:41:46.698+02:00","cssclasses":""}
---

Please read these segments first, to get a brief understanding of the game and base mechanics therein.

- Roles
- Dice and Values
- Tests
- Point Buy

# Roles

Players in Frame State take on one of two roles that of a Pilot, and of a Handler. The presence of a Handler is mandatory, along with a minimum of one Pilot, with up to three to five additional Pilots recommended.

While Pilots control individual machines, the Handler takes control of the world and all NPCs. 

The system can refer to the Pilot, Handler, or Unit. The last case is context-sensitive, and can refer to something controlled by either the Pilot or the Handler. Finally, the system can simply refer to you, in which case it concerns anyone who is currently interacting with the described element.
# Dice and Values

Aside from acting out their roles in the narrative, players (primarily Pilots) interact with the game world by rolling dice, tallying values, and comparing outcomes.

# Dice
Dice (singular die) output a random full number between 1 and its maximum when rolled. A die is signified by a "d" prefix, followed by the maximum number it can generate. Usually, you roll only one die per context given.
- There are many die types, ranging from d4 to d12.
- When a die is rolled, the generated number is called a natural result.
- When the result is the maximum possible for the die, it is called an ace.
- Values count for themselves, and range from 1 upward.

Additionally, each die is tied to several variables:
- AVG is the "average" outcome, sometimes used instead of a roll.
- MAX is the maximum possible outcome for the die roll.
- Grade is used in the context of character building and some special mechanics.

# Base Reference Table

| Type | AVG | MAX | Grade |
| :--: | :-: | :-: | :---: |
|  -   |  -  |  -  |   0   |
|  d4  |  3  |  4  |   1   |
|  d6  |  4  |  6  |   2   |
|  d8  |  5  |  8  |   3   |
| d10  |  6  | 10  |   4   |
| d12  |  7  | 12  |   5   |

# Tests

Whenever the Pilot attempts to do something dangerous (like do anything during combat) or interesting (as determined by the Handler), it becomes a test.

# Pilot Facing Tests
The tests are Pilot-facing at all times. This means, that Pilots always roll during a test, and NPCs (and other events described by the Handler) never do. Narratively, it is because of the players' competence that they persist through the challenges, and not because their foes fumbled.



| Term | Brief     |
| ---- | --------- |
| Mark | 
A mark is a test value set by the Handler.
- If your score is above this value, you "hit the mark", otherwise you "miss the mark", with variable outcome on a draw and extreme outcome on a critical or fumble. |




| Initiator | Test Type | Difference                                                    | On Draw |
| :-------: | :-------: | ------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
|   Pilot   | Proactive | When a Pilot hits the mark by 2 or more, they get a critical. | Hit     |
|  Handler  | Reactive  | When a Pilot misses the mark by 2 or more, they get a fumble. | Miss    |



| Term         | Brief         |
| ------------ | ------------- |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 1 - First Steps/Tests Folder/Mark]]     | 
A mark is a test value set by the Handler.
- If your score is above this value, you "hit the mark", otherwise you "miss the mark", with variable outcome on a draw and extreme outcome on a critical or fumble.     |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 1 - First Steps/Tests Folder/Score]]    | 
A score is a test value calculated by summing the natural result and modifiers. 
- The goal of a test is to generate the highest score.    |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 1 - First Steps/Tests Folder/Ace]]      | 
An ace is a test event in which a Pilot has rolled the maximum possible natural result.
- On an ace, add a modifier of +2 to the score.
- Only Pilots can ace.
- If the score has multiple dice, any die can cause an ace, but only one ace counts.      |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 1 - First Steps/Tests Folder/Critical]] | 
When a Pilot proactively hits the mark by 2 or more, they get a critical. It tends to provide results superior to a mere success.
- You can't get a critical on a reactive test. |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 1 - First Steps/Tests Folder/Fumble]]   | 
When a Pilot reactively misses the mark by 2 or more, they get a fumble. It indicates results even worse for the Pilot than a failure.
- You can't fumble on a proactive test.   |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 1 - First Steps/Tests Folder/Hit]]  | 
When the Pilot hits the mark in a test, the events that follow tend to be beneficial.  |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 1 - First Steps/Tests Folder/Miss]]  | 
When the Pilot misses the mark on a test, the following events tend to be detrimental.  |



# Structuring Tests
The goal of any one test is to generate a score and compare it against a mark.

A test consists of dice, modifiers, and a mark. The test specifies which dice and modifiers are used. Specific rules may modify this structure.


| **Score Calculation** |
|:---:|
| Score = Dice + Modifiers |

All tests follow this basic resolution sequence, divided into stages.
1. Roll all dice used in the test.
	- Keep only the highest result, discarding all others.
	- On an ace, add a modifier of 2 to the next stage. 
	- Any used die can ace, but only one ace counts.
2. Sum all modifiers used in the test.
3. Generate a score by summing results from stages 1 and 2.
4. Compare the score to the test's mark.
5. Check the resolution table. It should be easy to internalize after a couple viewings.

|    Score vs Mark    | Proactive Tests | Reactive Tests |
| :-----------------: | :-------------: | :------------: |
| Lower by 2 or less  |      Miss       |     Fumble     |
|        Lower        |      Miss       |      Miss      |
|        Draw         |       Hit       |      Miss      |
|       Higher        |       Hit       |      Hit       |
| Higher by 2 or less |    Critical     |      Hit       |

# Point Buy

Creating any sort of character element operates on point buy, linearly purchasing attributes with points. 
- One point increases an attribute by one grade.
- Each advancement category has its own point pool.
- You cannot exchange points between point pools.

# Point Allocation
Attributes have two types: Die and Val. Die attribute offers dice, and Val attribute offers values.
- Allocating a point in a Die type attribute permanently increases the offered die by one grade, from d4 to d6, and so on, up to d12.
- Allocating a point in a Val type attribute permanently increases the offered value by 1, up to 5.
- You cannot allocate points into a Die attribute that is already d12, or a Val attribute that is already 5.

# Advancement
A Pilot may use time between missions on training and improving their technology, either by personal research, buying up existing parts, or augmentation surgeries. However you explain it, advancement costs the same, based on category.
* When deciding on advancement, you choose a category and spend an associated amount of currency. When you do so, you gain one point in that category, increasing its maximum permanently. 
* You may advance a single category a finite number of times. After a limit, the advancement in that category halts.
* When you do upgrade your frame in any way, keep track of the total upgrade costs, in case you lose it and need to refit the new one with old parts.

# Experimental Awards
Occasionally, you may come across experimental upgrades, ranging from +1 to +3, inputted as a value as if they were normal points, but without interacting with the point limits. An experimental upgrade adds its value to any result or statistic generated from the attribute it was inserted to, even if the original value is a die.

# Refitting
Refitting a frame is much less costly than outright improving it.
- When deciding on a refit, you choose a category and spend one-tenth of the associated amount of currency.
- Choose one point to permanently lose, from any one attribute into which you had already invested at least one point during initial character generation or further advancement.
- You gain one new point, which can be assigned to another attribute within the same category.