---
{"publish":true,"created":"2025-08-07T17:37:25.792+02:00","modified":"2025-08-07T18:41:46.701+02:00","cssclasses":""}
---

When you first begin play, you have a blank slate and a lot of options to pick from.

- Brief
- Skills

# Brief

When you begin your career, make sure to assign some amount of background information to your character. This segment of character creation can be as brief, or as extensive as you yourself make it out to be. The richer your pilot's history is, the more attachment you feel with them and their struggles.
# Skills

A Pilot has three sets of skills to distribute points into.

Each skill involves both the Pilot's frame, and some more personal applications. Most of the activities for using skills with the frame are coded in, and personal use is loosely determined.

Initially, all skills begin as dice of d4, and the Pilot has 7 points to allocate.


| Skill         | Description    |
| ------------- | -------------- |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 2 - Character/Skills Folder/Sharpness]] | 
Ability to read and react to immediate information, as well as twitchy coordination.
- Used for offensive tests, such as use of weapons.

**Narratively and in personality:**
- You may be witty, talk fast.
- You may be cocky, act on instinct. |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 2 - Character/Skills Folder/Smarts]]    | 
Ability to make and operate complex machinery on the basic and advanced levels, as well as intimately understand resource management.
- Used for certain utility tests, research and repairs.

**Narratively and in personality:**
- You may be intellectual, well spoken.
- You may be arrogant, slow to decide.    |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 2 - Character/Skills Folder/Synergy]]   | 
Your timing, kinaesthetic sense, and the knack for juggling inputs.
- Used for defensive tests, such as coordinated evasion.

**Narratively and in personality:**
- You may have sympathy and compassion.
- You may be too soft, or the opposite.   |

# Credits

Credits are an in-game currency you earn through missions and spend on personal advancement. Each starting character begins with 100 credits in their account, and this amount fluctuates throughout the game. Oftentimes, you will have invested most of your credits into your frame and your ability to pilot it.

There is no real-life equivalent to credits, but it is purposed that 10 credit units would warrant mundane currency enough to comfortably live for about a month. In the narrative, it's assumed that you either need or want to make a large amount of money and constantly reinvest it into your frame.

Trading credits between player pilots is encouraged. Whether it is done with kindness of heart or a narrative favour, is up to you as players.
# Losing Your Frame

Inevitably, you may face a situation in which you lose your frame in battle or as a result of some mishap. If your frame is destroyed on a mission, you must either eject or go down with the collapsing machine. If you die, you must make an entirely new pilot.

When you eject, you remain a vulnerable target as a simple human. You can take only one point of harm for you to become inoperable. As a human, you have a speed of 1, able to traverse 3 hexes per turn. If you do survive a conflict and manage to somehow extract from the mission, you can try measuring your options.
- Riding on top of an allied frame is a bold choice, since any sort of jostle will make you fall.
- A frame with a free hand can safely hold you, although explosions and similar area damage will kill you.

A brand new frame costs a small fortune of 3,000c. It retains no point upgrades from the previous one (with the exception of your own skills, since they are not tied to the machine), although you may redistribute the new frame's points it to your liking. If you managed to extract the wreck as well, you may refit the new frame with the wreck's remaining parts and follow leftover schematics to expediate and cheapen the process of reacquiring your lost power.

Tally up the total upgrade costs which you have spent on purchasing points for tuning, expansions and weapons, including individual weapon limits. Divide that total by 10. The result is the amount of credits you can salvage and reuse to refit the new chassis, with any new arrangement of points.