---
{"publish":true,"created":"2025-08-07T17:37:25.797+02:00","modified":"2025-08-07T18:41:46.706+02:00","cssclasses":""}
---

Mechanically, the frame consists of numerous statistics tied to its different parts.
- A frame statistic is a property of a frame, which can influence tests and other aspects of the game. It is usually a value, but can have dice in it.
- If the statistic has a die, it is rerolled every time the statistic is called for. For example, if the weapon has a die in its damage statistic, that die is rerolled every time the weapon damages something, with some exceptions.
- Dice within statistics can ace, adding 2 to the statistic as a modifier.

The statistics are arranged in order of occurrence, from chassis through generators to weapons.
- Chassis
- OS
- Generator
- Weapon

# Resources

Sometimes, as specified, a statistic can create a resource pool. A resource pool consists of a  number of points, which can be lost or replenished.

# Minimum Resource Value
The minimum for a resource is always 0. 

At minimum, you cannot spend any more of that resource, and anything that relies on spending the resource automatically fails.

# Maximum Resource Value
The maximum of a resource equals that of the statistic's value. 
For example, if the frame's integrity is 9, then its maximum integrity is 9 points.

# Loss and Replenishment
When you lose a resource, subtract a relevant value from the resource pool.
- Reaching minimum as a result of a loss often has additional effects.

When you replenish a resource, add a relevant value to the resource pool, up to the maximum. 
- Any replenishment in excess of the maximum is lost.
# Chassis Statistics

The chassis provides majority of main statistics for the frame.

| Chassis Statistics | Description    |
| ------------------ | -------------- |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 3 - Statistics/Chassis Stats Folder/Integrity]]      | 
**Resource**
Based on chassis. Describes how well the frame holds up under duress, and how much punishment it can take before falling apart.
- You lose integrity points when taking damage, equal to the amount of damage taken.
- You replenish integrity points with the Repair action and other activities.

When a unit's integrity is lowered down to 0, it is destroyed. |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 3 - Statistics/Chassis Stats Folder/Stability]]      | 
**Resource**
Based on chassis. Describes how hard it is to throw the frame off-balance.
- You lose stability points when taking impact, equal to the amount of impact taken.
- You replenish stability points with the Stabilise action.
- You automatically Stabilise at no cost at the beginning of your turn.

When a unit's stability is lowered down to 0, it is staggered. |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 3 - Statistics/Chassis Stats Folder/Recoil]]         | 
**Resource**
Based on chassis. Describes how many times a frame can use its weapons before overwhelming its targeting systems.
- You lose recoil points when using weapons.
- You replenish recoil points to maximum at the beginning of your turn.

When attempting to use a weapon while your recoil is already 0, the weapon has an effective range of 0.    |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 3 - Statistics/Chassis Stats Folder/Speed]]          | 
**Statistic**
Based on chassis. Describes how fast the frame can move in single bursts and continued movement.
- When a unit has 0 speed but is still mobile somehow, it can still move 1 hex by spending its whole turn moving, if allowed by the handler.     |

# Os Statistics

The frame is nothing without a solid operating system.

| OS Statistics | Description    |
| ------------- | -------------- |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 3 - Statistics/OS Stats/Directors]] | 
**Statistic** 
Based on OS. Describes the frame's targeting efficiency in varying events.
- Includes Servo Control, Aim Assist, and Lock Correction.
- Each of these three is a separate sub-statistic. |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 3 - Statistics/OS Stats/Detectors]] | 
**Statistic**
Based on OS. Functions as a bonus to Survey-type actions. |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 3 - Statistics/OS Stats/Evasion]]   | 
**Statistic**
Based on OS. Describes how well the frame avoids immediate danger via movement.   |

# Generator Statistics

The generator provides the statistics for a more optional, but nevertheless highly important element of energy management.

| Generator Statistics | Description   |
| -------------------- | ------------- |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 3 - Statistics/Generator Stats Folder/Energy Capacity]]           | 
**Resource**
Based on generator. Describes the size of the frame's energy storage.
- You lose energy points when performing actions and abilities that cost energy.
- You replenish energy equal to the Energy Recharge statistic at the beginning of your turn.

When attempting to use something that requires energy while the energy is already 0, the unit overheats.   |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 3 - Statistics/Generator Stats Folder/Energy Recharge]]         | 
**Statistic**
Based on generator. Describes how fast the frame replenishes its energy.
- Sets the rate at which Energy Capacity replenishes its points.

When a unit has 0 recharge but has an energy resource, it cannot replenish its energy at all unless specified otherwise. |

# Weapon Statistics

Much like the frame, weapons have their own statistical elements. The statistics are given once for each weapon. Since a frame can have multiple weapons on board, it is important to have each armament described separately.

Furthermore, these basic statistics do not reflect the full extent of a weapon's utility, as most of it comes from the damage type and chosen tags.

| Weapon Statistics | Description      |
| ----------------- | ---------------- |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 3 - Statistics/Weapon Stats NEW/Targeting]]     | 
**Statistic**
Based  on weapon type. Acts as a modifier to targeting tests made with the weapon.   |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 3 - Statistics/Weapon Stats NEW/Base Damage]]   | 
**Statistic**
Based on weapon tier. Describes the expected harm the weapon causes on a successful hit. |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 3 - Statistics/Weapon Stats NEW/Range]]         | 
**Statistic**
Based on weapon. Describes the effective range of a weapon.
- If you attempt to use a weapon out of range, your targeting test has a cumulative -2 penalty for each hex beyond the range.       |


