---
{"publish":true,"created":"2025-08-07T17:37:25.802+02:00","modified":"2025-08-07T18:41:46.712+02:00","cssclasses":""}
---

During most missions, the Pilots take the reins of their frames and are deployed into combat. With rarely any rest, they must persist through the prepared fights until the end, and complete the objectives along the way.

This chapter begins with the description of the conflict as a whole, and gradually zooms in on individual actions.

- Map
- Rounds
- Payout

# Map

The map describes where everything is situated, including but not limited to the pilot, their frame, NPCs and obstacles.

The map is separated into an even hexagonal column grid. The distance from one centre of the hex to the centre of another adjacent hex is equal 10 metres, and minor inconsistencies are ignored.
- Hexes are adjacent when connected by an edge. Hexes connected by only a corner are not adjacent.
- Mechanically, everything occupies space as close to the centre of its hex as possible. As such, the effective distance between things is always 10 metres, even if they are narratively "hugging" the adjacent edge.
# Points of Interest

A designation, or a point of interest, is a mechanical device for describing any important map feature, including yourself, allies, enemies, and obstacles. A designation always occupies at least one hex. If multiple important things exist within the same hex, choose which one to designate.

Normally, you can only designate points of interest you can see.

# Hexes

Hexes hold a number of variables, describing how they interact with the pilots, NPCs, projectiles and obstacles.


| Hex Variable | Description   |
| ------------ | ------------- |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 6 - Mission Gameplay/Map Folder/Hexes Folder/Space]]    | 
Technically hovering above the grid of some other hex, it is a 10-metre column of empty space. Space can be stacked indefinitely unless the map has some sort of ceiling. Most commonly used for flying.
- If you enter an air hex during ground movement, the movement ends and you begin to fall unless you flew.
- If you begin your turn in an air hex, you begin to fall.    |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 6 - Mission Gameplay/Map Folder/Hexes Folder/Occupied]] | 
Holds any one Pilot, Frame, NPC, obstacle, or some large entity. Stops being occupied when the unit/entity moves out of the hex, or is destroyed enough to not count as obstacle anymore.
- Cannot be entered during movement. |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 6 - Mission Gameplay/Map Folder/Hexes Folder/Terrain]]  | 
Traversable, free of obstacles space on the "ground level", assigned a certain height.
- You cannot fall or move below a terrain hex.
- If the difference in height between adjacent terrain hexes is higher than 10 metres, you cannot enter the adjacent hex.  |
| [[Document Listing/Chapters/Folder 6 - Mission Gameplay/Map Folder/Hexes Folder/Prop]]     | 
Treated identically to a terrain hex, except it can be destroyed with enough effort, and can lie atop another hex type (typically terrain). 
- If a unit occupies a destroyed prop, it begins to fall.

Destructible props have a single value, from 1 upward. The value equals the prop's integrity, as well as all defences equally. The value is typically assigned by the handler.     |


# Distances

Distances between points of interest always use the grid, starting from the hex occupied by the first point of interest, to a hex occupied by the second point of interest.
- In order to measure horizontal distance, begin from the first point's' hex, and move to the adjacent hex. Repeat this process until you reach the second point's hex. The shortest possible number of repeats that connects these in a path is the distance.
- In order to measure vertical distance, calculate the difference in elevation between the two points of interest, in 10-metre increments.
- In order to measure a three-dimensional distance, sum horizontal and vertical distances between the points of interest.
# Ranges

A range is the maximum possible distance, within which something can operate - be it the frame's movement, the weapon, and otherwise, measured from the origin point of the range (such as the frame's current position, or the epicentre of the explosion). 
- Hexes that cannot be reached within the maximum number of steps are effectively out of range.
- Normally ranges can be angled to avoid invalid hexes, for example when moving around an obstacle.
- Straight ranges cannot be angled. A point is out of straight range if you can't draw a straight, unobstructed line to it (handler being the final arbiter).
# Movement

When something moves, its position on the grid changes. Normally this requires some sort of movement action, during which you draw distance to the hex you want to move into. This distance should respect movement range, if any.
- The path you take can be important if there are obstacles and hazards along the way.
- You can dynamically change the path you take as long as you keep moving, but once you stop moving or take another action, that particular movement is over.
- Moving into a hex is only possible if the hex is currently unoccupied.
# Sight

Line of sight is a narrative concept describing what someone can and cannot see. If you cannot draw a relatively straight line from yourself to the point of interest, then it is out of your sight. You might still be able to discern that something is there, based on sound, environmental cues, and certain tests.
- Certain effects provide a highlight. This allows a pilot to maintain sight on the affected target even if no straight line of sight exists.
# Units

All remarkable things within the context of the conflict are considered units. Pilot players are units, as are all NPCs of some disposition.

# Player Pilots
As a player pilot, you are capable of piloting a frame, which is considered "you" within the context of conflicts. Player pilots act during the friendly segment in an order they agree on.

# NPCs
An NPC, or a Non-Player Character, can be just about anything that can move, shoot, or interact with the player pilots, like a hostile frame. Each NPC has some sort of disposition toward the player pilots.

Determining disposition is a narrative act performed by the handler. An NPC can be allied, neutral, or an enemy.
- Ally NPCs act on the ally segment right after the pilot players. They are friendly towards the pilot players, and fight alongside them. If antagonized, they can become neutral or even enemies.
- Neutral NPCs act on the neutral segment right after the ally NPCs. Neutral NPCs are indifferent at the time of the conflict, and fight for themselves, switching allegiances whenever it suits them.
- Enemy NPCs act on the enemy segment right after the neutral NPCs. They fight to kill the pilot players.
# Rounds

While in conflict, the game slows down to seconds at a time, and operates in an abstract manner within a round. During a round, units act one after another, and once all have acted or abstained from doing so, the round ends and another begins.
- A unit is any one element on the map that acts in some way with the round abstraction. This can be friendlies (Pilot players) or NPCs of any allegiance.

# Round Segments
A round is separated into a number of individual segments during which units act grouped by allegiance.

| Round Segment | Units Played                                                                                                                            |
| ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Friendly      | Pilots and their frames. Players decide among each other who wants to act and when, but individual turns must be played out in full.    |
| Ally          | NPCs allied to the Pilot players. They act in support of the Pilot players during the conflict, although their own goals take priority. |
| Neutral       | NPCs neutral to the Pilot players, indifferent to the conflict.                                                                         |
| Enemy         | NPCs hostile to the Pilot players, who fight to destroy Pilots and their frames, or prevent them from doing something.                  |
| Environmental | Environmental effects, such as falling, occur during this segment.                                                                      |
# Taking your Turn
1. Declare start turn (in agreement with other players) and apply events that occur at the beginning of your turn.
2. Perform any actions you can think of within reason, until all resources or options have been exhausted. You may declare to end your turn early to preserve resources, or if you cannot think of any actions to take.
3. Declare end turn, and apply events that occur at the end of your turn.
4. Move on to the next player Pilot or NPC.

# Falling

Falling is a form of forced, straight vertical movement, which occurs once per round during the environmental segment. It applies to all units that have the falling state. 
- Player-piloted frames usually fall when they neglected to fly during their turn.
- When falling, the unit moves 100 metres down.
- If during this movement the unit encounters a non-air hex, and the fall was longer than 10 metres, then the unit stops falling and takes 10 impact.
# Payout

Missions have a base payout, offered if the Pilots succeed at the primary objective. A mission can have secondary or hidden objectives, which provide bonus pay. On the other hand, the employer may reduce pay if an objective is mismanaged.
- Most of the variables should be shown before the mission so as to avoid confusion.

# Mission Costs
While on a mission, keep track of each integrity loss and each use of a weapon. When the mission concludes, tally up the total Cost for each and multiply it by 5 to receive the credit fee.
- Each integrity point lost has 1 Cost.
- Each weapon use has Cost based on its tier

| Mission Cost     | Cost pt.    |
| ---------------- | ----------- |
| Integrity Loss   | 1 per point |
| T I Weapon Use   | 1 per use   |
| T II Weapon Use  | 2 per use   |
| T III Weapon Use | 3 per use   
# Debt
If the costs are too high, you may go into a negative, which reduces your currency instead of adding to it, potentially getting you into debt. Debt is more of a narrative device, since you can still use assembly however you like, but it renders you unable to advance your stats until you go out of the negative and earn usable money.